README.md, before:

# Future Border and Immigration System (FBIS) Customer Contact Form (CCF)

A [Home Office Forms (HOF)](https://ukhomeofficeforms.github.io/hof-guide/documentation/#getting-started) app for users to submit technical queries relating to the ID Check app, viewing or proving immigration status, or updating immigration account details. Queries are sent to support services for resolution using [GOV.UK Notify](https://www.notifications.service.gov.uk/).

## Set up

### Set environment variables

To run the app using the notprod Notify test service, you will need to:

1. Get the notprod API key securely from a colleague
2. Ask a colleague to add you to the `Future Border and Immigration System Customer Contact Form - notprod` Notify service
3. Get the test SRC casework email. This is the email address for `FBIS CCF Developers` on the [Notify service team](https://www.notifications.service.gov.uk/services/7c8d0248-51b8-4795-b920-3ff84efb7faf/users)
4. Get the template ids from the [template page](https://www.notifications.service.gov.uk/services/7c8d0248-51b8-4795-b920-3ff84efb7faf/templates/837dc8ac-6abf-4f6a-9f0c-57a28ea7f43c)

Then add the values retrieved above to your environment variables:

```.env
export NOTIFY_KEY=[API_KEY]
export SRC_CASEWORK_EMAIL=[FBIS_CCF_DEVELOPERS_EMAIL]
export TEMPLATE_QUERY=[QUERY_TEMPLATE_ID]
export FEEBACK_EMAIL=[FBIS_CCF_DEVELOPERS_EMAIL]
export TEMPLATE_FEEDBACK=[FEEDBACK_TEMPLATE_ID]
```

### Install prerequisites

Install Node version manager:

```bash
curl -o- https://raw.githubusercontent.com/nvm-sh/nvm/v0.36.0/install.sh | bash
nvm --version
```

Install and use Node version 12 or above:
```bash
nvm install 12
nvm use 12
nvm version
```

Install node package dependencies:
```bash
npm i
```

Install brew:

[Brew installation instructions](https://brew.sh/)

Install redis:

```bash
brew install redis
```

Start redis:

```bash
brew services start redis
```

### Run the app

Any of the following commands will start the app. `npm run dev` starts the app in 'watch' mode, so it will update as you make code changes. `npm run debug` starts the app with Node dev tools available in the Chrome browser, accessible on the [Chrome inspect page](chrome://inspect/#devices).

```bash
npm start
npm run dev
npm run debug
```

## Test

### Unit tests and linting

Unit tests use [Mocha](https://mochajs.org/), [Sinon](https://sinonjs.org/) for stubs, [Chai](https://www.chaijs.com/) for assertions, and [Proxyquire](https://github.com/thlorenz/proxyquire#readme) for dependency mocking. Linting uses [ESLint](https://eslint.org/).

`test/test-helpers.js` is a helper script that makes Sinon and Chai's `expect` keyword available globally.

Use the following command from the root directory to run linting and unit tests:

```bash
npm test
```

To run linting and unit tests separately, use the following commands:

```bash
npm test:lint
npm test:unit
```

### Automated UI tests

UI tests use [Playwright](https://playwright.dev/#version=v1.6.1) for browser automation and are run with Mocha using Sinon for stubs and Chai for assertions as above. Tests can be run in chromium, firefox, or webkit browser engines.

`test/ui/ui-test-helpers.js` is a helper script that initialises the `browser` and `page` variables before each test run and makes them available globally. It also provides the following helper functions for common test interactions and assertions:

```javascript
getSubmit()                     // get an element handle for the page's submit button, e.g. to test it's value
submitPage()                    // submit the page and wait for the next page state to load
getErrorSummaries()             // get an array of element handles containing all error summary elements
getErrorMessages()              // get an array of element handdles containing all error message elements
```

To test against all browsers, use one of the following commands:

```bash
npm run test:ui                 // requires that app is already running
npm run test:ui:server          // starts the app, runs tests, terminates the app
```

To test against individual browsers, use one of the following commands:

```bash
npm run test:ui:chromium        // requires that app is already running
npm run test:ui:firefox         // requires that app is already running
npm run test:ui:webkit          // requires that app is already running
```

All automated UI test scripts require that redis is already running.

#### Naming convention

UI tests are linked to their requirement ID and Jira ticket number via describe text:

```javascript
describe('/route', () => {

  describe('FR-FEE-1 (FBISCC-01)', () => {

    it('should [insert desired functionality]', async()=> {
      // some test code for a business requirement
    });

  });

});
```

Where there is no requirement ID, i.e. when testing dev tasks that are not captured by business requirements, replace the requirement id with 'DEV':

```javascript
describe('/route', () => {

  describe('DEV (FBISCC-02)', () => {

    it('should [insert desired functionality]', async()=> {
      // some test code for a dev task, or similar
    });

  });

});
```

Commit message:

FBISCC-58: backfill UI test for Notify integration and improve Notify success checks
* Add automated tests for notify integration
* Fix pollEmailStatus utils method to poll until email succeeds, not until created
* Fix pollEmailStatus utils method to error if email fails or is not sent after 30s
* Add error and 404 views

README.md, after:

# Future Border and Immigration System (FBIS) Customer Contact Form (CCF)

A [Home Office Forms (HOF)](https://ukhomeofficeforms.github.io/hof-guide/documentation/#getting-started) app for users to submit technical queries relating to the ID Check app, viewing or proving immigration status, or updating immigration account details. Queries are sent to support services for resolution using [GOV.UK Notify](https://www.notifications.service.gov.uk/).

## Set up

### Set environment variables

To run the app using the notprod Notify test service, you will need to:

1. Get the notprod and mock API keys securely from a colleague
2. Ask a colleague to add you to the `Future Border and Immigration System Customer Contact Form - notprod` Notify service
3. Get the test SRC casework email. This is the email address for `FBIS CCF Developers` on the [Notify service team](https://www.notifications.service.gov.uk/services/7c8d0248-51b8-4795-b920-3ff84efb7faf/users)
4. Get the template ids from the [template page](https://www.notifications.service.gov.uk/services/7c8d0248-51b8-4795-b920-3ff84efb7faf/templates/837dc8ac-6abf-4f6a-9f0c-57a28ea7f43c)

Then add the values retrieved above to your environment variables:

```.env
export NOTIFY_KEY=[API_KEY]
export MOCK_NOTIFY_KEY=[MOCK_API_KEY]
export SRC_CASEWORK_EMAIL=[FBIS_CCF_DEVELOPERS_EMAIL]
export TEMPLATE_QUERY=[QUERY_TEMPLATE_ID]
export FEEBACK_EMAIL=[FBIS_CCF_DEVELOPERS_EMAIL]
export TEMPLATE_FEEDBACK=[FEEDBACK_TEMPLATE_ID]
```

### Install prerequisites

Install Node version manager:

```bash
curl -o- https://raw.githubusercontent.com/nvm-sh/nvm/v0.36.0/install.sh | bash
nvm --version
```

Install and use Node version 12 or above:
```bash
nvm install 12
nvm use 12
nvm version
```

Install node package dependencies:
```bash
npm i
```

Install brew:

[Brew installation instructions](https://brew.sh/)

Install redis:

```bash
brew install redis
```

Start redis:

```bash
brew services start redis
```

### Run the app

Any of the following commands will start the app. `npm run dev` starts the app in 'watch' mode, so it will update as you make code changes. `npm run debug` starts the app with Node dev tools available in the Chrome browser, accessible on the [Chrome inspect page](chrome://inspect/#devices).

```bash
npm start
npm run dev
npm run debug
```

To run the app using a mock notify service (required for automated UI testing), use this command:

```bash
npm run start:mock
```

## Test

### Unit tests and linting

Unit tests use [Mocha](https://mochajs.org/), [Sinon](https://sinonjs.org/) for stubs, [Chai](https://www.chaijs.com/) for assertions, and [Proxyquire](https://github.com/thlorenz/proxyquire#readme) for dependency mocking. Linting uses [ESLint](https://eslint.org/).

`test/test-helpers.js` is a helper script that makes Sinon and Chai's `expect` keyword available globally.

Use the following command from the root directory to run linting and unit tests:

```bash
npm test
```

To run linting and unit tests separately, use the following commands:

```bash
npm test:lint
npm test:unit
```

### Automated UI tests

UI tests use [Playwright](https://playwright.dev/#version=v1.6.1) for browser automation and are run with Mocha using Sinon for stubs and Chai for assertions as above. Tests can be run in chromium, firefox, or webkit browser engines.

`test/ui/ui-test-helpers.js` is a helper script that initialises the `browser` and `page` variables before each test run and makes them available globally. It also provides the following helper functions for common test interactions and assertions:

```javascript
getSubmit()                     // get an element handle for the page's submit button, e.g. to test it's value
submitPage()                    // submit the page and wait for the next page state to load
getErrorSummaries()             // get an array of element handles containing all error summary elements
getErrorMessages()              // get an array of element handdles containing all error message elements
```

To test against all browsers, use one of the following commands:

```bash
npm run test:ui                 // requires app to have been started separately with 'npm run start:mock'
npm run test:ui:server          // starts the app, runs tests, terminates the app
```

To test against individual browsers, use one of the following commands:

```bash
npm run test:ui:chromium        // requires app to have been started separately with 'npm run start:mock'
npm run test:ui:firefox         // requires app to have been started separately with 'npm run start:mock'
npm run test:ui:webkit          // requires app to have been started separately with 'npm run start:mock'
```

All automated UI test scripts require that redis is already running.

#### Naming convention

UI tests are linked to their requirement ID and Jira ticket number via describe text:

```javascript
describe('/route', () => {

  describe('FR-FEE-1 (FBISCC-01)', () => {

    it('should [insert desired functionality]', async()=> {
      // some test code for a business requirement
    });

  });

});
```

Where there is no requirement ID, i.e. when testing dev tasks that are not captured by business requirements, replace the requirement id with 'DEV':

```javascript
describe('/route', () => {

  describe('DEV (FBISCC-02)', () => {

    it('should [insert desired functionality]', async()=> {
      // some test code for a dev task, or similar
    });

  });

});
```
